# Paradata
---

In first approaching Module 4 I began by figuring out the different options I could make to bring the digital back into the physical world. I looked through the different links provided by Professor Graham in the course [FAQ](https://github.com/shawngraham/hist3812w18/wiki/FAQ). I thought that building a hologram projector sounded really cool, but the idea of creating an augmented reality experience appealed to me more. 

I decided to use the HP Reveal App for my Module. I followed the [link](https://aurasma.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/206283375-Creating-an-Aurasma-studio-account) provided in the FAQ to get started. I downloaded the HP Reveal app on my phone and created an account. I then followed the tutorial instructions in the app to practice making an augmented reality experience. It works by using a target image, which you tie somethig else to. You can select the augmented aspect and place it on the target image, either using the website or the app. Once you have created the experience, you can save and share it. 

In playing around with the app, I was really able to understand how it functioned. The concept of using technology to reveal a hidden aspect of a physical object really appealed to me, as it combined both the digital and physical together. 

After figuring out how to use the HP Reveal app, I began to build my own augmented reality experience. I followed the instructions on ["How to Create an Aura"](https://aurasma.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/205584239-Studio-How-To-Create-An-Aura) in order to figure out how to incorporate my 3d model into the Module. I also followed the instructions included in the FAQ, to use [MeshLab](http://www.meshlab.net/) to make a 3d modle compatible with HP Reveal. I downloaded MeshLab and converted the .obj file into a .dae file. I then tried to make a .tar file using [7zip](https://www.7-zip.org/download.html). I realized I need multiple files in the .tar file, I found the .png texture and thumbnail files which I combined with the .dae file. I ran into some problems when trying to add the .tar file as an aura. I kept getting an error message, and tried changing the file a couple times. I was unable to successfully add the 3d model as an aura as a result of this error. 

I realized that audio could be added as an aura in HP Reveal. I decided to tie my sonification of the data from my 3d model instead of the model itself. I converted the .wav file to a .mp3 file. I then found a picture of Winston Churchill wearing similar clothing to the depiction of him as the Toby Jug used for my 3d model. I added my sonification as an aura to the target image of Churchill. I then added another image of the Churchill Toby Jug as a second aura. I purposefully lined up the image of the Jug with the picture of Churchill, so as to show the way in which he was depicted in mass culture in 1940's England. 

After creating my augmented reality experience using HP Reveal I tested it using the app. I am very happy with the end result, as the image of the jug and the sonfication are tied to a historical photograph of Winston Churchill. I would have liked to see the 3d model tied to the picture, as I think it would have added another aspect to it, but I like the overlay of the Jug image with the sonfication. 

I think that being able to combine the digital with the physical is a really intriguing way to engage with an object. Having a historical picture, with an extra element such as sound or another image tied to it helps for people to interact with history. Using an app on your phone, something which most people use daily, allows for an augmented experience to be held in your hand. The viewer controls their own interaction with an object, and can access another layer to a part of history. 